feat: mdns (#260)
libp2p/docs: content/concepts/discovery-routing/mDNS.md

---
title: "mDNS"
description: "mDNS uses a multicast system of DNS records over a local network to enable peer discovery."
weight: 224
---

## What is mDNS?

mDNS, or multicast Domain Name System, is a way for nodes to use a multicast system
of DNS records over a local network to discover and communicate with nodes. Nodes
broadcast topics they're interested in instead of querying a central name server.
The discovery, however, is limited to the peers in the local network. mDNS is commonly
used on home networks to allow devices such as computers, printers, and smart TVs to
find each other and connect. It uses a protocol called multicast to broadcast messages
on the network, allowing devices to discover each other and exchange information.

## mDNS in libp2p

In libp2p, mDNS is used for peer discovery, allowing peers to find and
communicate with each other on the same local network without any prior configuration.

> This is achieved through multicast DNS (mDNS) records, which are sent to all nodes on the
> local network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Unnecessary sentence

---
title: "mDNS"
description: "mDNS uses a multicast system of DNS records over a local network to enable peer discovery."
weight: 224
---

> ## What is mDNS?

Reviewer 2: I always liked when we started our articles with a sentence or two explaining where things fit into the libp2p stack.

Example: libp2p uses mDNS to discover other libp2p nodes on the same local network, using the same protocol that a computer would to find printers.

mDNS, or multicast Domain Name System, is a way for nodes to use a multicast system
of DNS records over a local network to discover and communicate with nodes. Nodes
broadcast topics they're interested in instead of querying a central name server.
The discovery, however, is limited to the peers in the local network. mDNS is commonly
used on home networks to allow devices such as computers, printers, and smart TVs to
find each other and connect. It uses a protocol called multicast to broadcast messages
on the network, allowing devices to discover each other and exchange information.

## mDNS in libp2p

In libp2p, mDNS is used for peer discovery, allowing peers to find and

> communicate with each other on the same local network without any prior configuration.

Reviewer 2: mDNS just does the finding part, transports do the communicating part.

This is achieved through multicast DNS (mDNS) records, which are sent to all nodes on the
local network.

> To initiate peer discovery, a peer sends a query to all other peers on the network using

Reviewer 2: We should say that this is using multicast, and therefore:
1. only works on local networks
2. doesn't require the peer to know any IP addresses of other nodes

> To initiate peer discovery, a peer sends a query to all other peers on the network using

Reviewer 3: I would suggest getting rid of everything below here until the `Example` section. That one is kind of cool to see. Maybe add a bit more context for the example since we've removed this.

> a DNS message with the question `_p2p._udp.local PTR`. In response, each peer will send a

Reviewer 2: The question is for `_p2p` (or is it `p2p`?) The rest is just there to make things fit into mDNS.

Reviewer 3: it's for _p2p._udp.local.
<img width="759" alt="Screenshot 2023-01-26 at 4 37 04 PM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/594035/214981290-c65f7d31-b102-4270-860c-9b6555b870ed.png">

I think this is to low level. If I need to use wireshark to verify this, I don't think users will care about the specifics here.

DNS message containing their discovery details. These details are stored in the additional
records of the response and include the multiaddresses that the peer is listening on, as
well as other information such as the peer's `<peer-name>` and `<host-name>`.

The response message (that is, the answer to the DNS message) is in the form of a
DNS record: `<service-name> PTR <peer-name>.<service-name>`. Additional record in the
response message contains a peer's discovery details in the following form:
`<peer-name>.<service-name> TXT "dnsaddr=..."`

> - `<peer-name>` is a unique case-insensitive identifier for the peer, although it is not

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `<peer-name>` is supposed to be a unique case-insensitive identifier for the peer, required by the mDNS protocol. However, it doesn't serve any meaningful..
```

Reviewer 2: Thinking about it, I'm not sure if we need to mention this at all. This seems to be a bit too low-level for documentation. wdyt?

A peer must respond to its own query. This allows other peers to passively discover it.

### Example

The sample Wireshark output shows the mDNS traffic that is being generated from an IPFS node.
The table includes information about the query and response messages being exchanged via mDNS.

| No. | Time       | Source IP                | Destination IP         | Protocol | Length | Info                      |
|-----|------------|--------------------------|------------------------|----------|--------|---------------------------|
| 1   | 0.000000   | 10.0.0.25                | 224.0.0.251            | MDNS     | 75     | Standard query 0x7d14 PTR _p2p._udp.local, "QM" question |
| 2   | 0.000130   | fe80::8d9:f02f:717f:2c03 | ff02::fb               | MDNS     | 95     | Standard query 0x7d14 PTR _p2p._udp.local, "QM" question |
| 3   | 0.002497   | 10.0.0.25                | 224.0.0.251            | MDNS     | 918    | Standard query response 0x7d14 PTR vmvokx8c0b7rcjtx4e14iyaxw7otg05xyg954y5fnh1a9rderxtxycicgtj3nn._p2p._udp.local SRV 0 0 4001 vmvokx8c0b7rcjtx4e14iyaxw7otg05xyg954y5fnh1a9rderxtxycicgtj3nn.local TXT A 127.0.0.1 AAAA ::1 |

> | 4   | 0.002507   | fe80::8d9:f02f:717f:2c03 | ff02::fb               | MDNS     | 938    | Standard query response 0x7d14 PTR vmvokx8c0b7rcjtx4e14iyaxw7otg05xyg954y5fnh1a9rderxtxycicgtj3nn._p2p._udp.local SRV 0 0 4001 vmvokx8c0b7rcjtx4e14iyaxw7otg05xyg954y5fnh1a9rderxtxycicgtj3nn.local TXT A 127.0.0.1 AAAA ::1 |

Reviewer 2: This doesn't show the multiaddr, does it?

Reviewer 3: If we're going to show this, we may as well show the multiaddr result of the query.

Reviewer 2: Yes, that was my motivation when I asked for including a Wireshark capture. 

Maybe this could even be a screenshot of Wireshark? No strong opinion in either direction though.

Reviewer: Let's not include this? Why have wireshark output for mDNS and not for other protocols?

I'm in favor of removing this and the following paragraphs.

Instead we can describe the peer discover section https://github.com/libp2p/specs/blob/master/discovery/mdns.md#peer-discovery in two sentences and point to the spec

Reviewer: @MarcoPolo @marten-seemann please re-review. I removed the wireshark section and instead linked to the specs
